Okay. So, now let's go and talk about Merkle trees,
since I've explained to you in the previous video what Merkle trees are,
like we learned, that Merkle trees are a fundamental part of Blockchain technology.
A Merkle tree pretty much summarizes all the transactions in a block
by producing a digital fingerprint of the entire set of transactions,
thereby enabling a user to verify whether or not a transaction is included in a block.
Now, Merkle trees are created by repeatedly hashing pairs of nodes,
and I'm going to show you exactly how that happens.
So, like we said, the way it's done,
it actually repeatedly hashes pairs of nodes until there's only one hash left,
and this is called the root hash or the Merkle root.
Now, they're constructed from the bottom up from hashes of individual transactions.
Each leaf node is a hash of transactional data,
and each non-leaf node is a hash of its previous hashes.
Now, let's look at a couple of code samples here using how Merkle trees work.
So, what we're going to do in this example,
roughly we're actually going to create our own Merkle tree,
and I'll show you exactly the function that we do that,
and then we're going to create a Merkle root from it. So, let's get started.
So, if you see the first thing that we'll of course need
is the module which is called merkletreejs.
So, npm installed merkeltreejs,
and you're going to require the module,
and this is a module that actually helps us create a Merkle tree,
and the next one that you'll need is a crypto module,
and this is for hashing, so,
this npm install crypto, so, again,
this module just provides cryptographic functionality.
So, we are going to require both of these modules,
and just defining bunch of variables,
leaves, tree, layers, root, proof, and verified.
Now, this is the function that is used for hashing leaves and nodes.
So, we're passing information
to it and we're going to call this function from right here,
and so we're just calling this function.
What this function is doing, first of all,
crypto is the module that we're calling,
and then the createHash method is to use to create hash instances.
Now, after we have a hash instance,
we have the update method that updates the hash content by the given data.
Then for the recalculate the digest of all the data
passed to hashed function using the hashtag.update method,
and then of course the digest method.
So, this is just a simple way that you're going to
create a hash of any data that's passed in.
Once we have that,
and so what I'm doing,
is that I'm just taking some random sample data,
you can always try it with any data you want to.
So, have a function that's called createLeaves,
and I am just taking an array of a,
b, c, three values and I'm mapping through them,
and I'm individually hashing every single value.
That means, a is being hashed, b is being hashed,
c is being hashed, and then I'm putting all the hashes in an array.
So, I'm just creating an array of hash leaves.
So, I'm passing this to my function sha256.
Every single a, b, c,
in all the values, and I am just putting in.
I'm also doing a console.log.
Then, this is the main function that actually creates the tree.
So, this is the function that creates a new Merkle tree with the hashed leaves.
So, if you see I'm passing the array and then I'm also passing a hashed function,
the hashing function over here,
and it just creates a tree.
So, new Merkle tree,
and that's the syntax you pass your leaves,
whatever data that you wanted to pass the hashed one,
and then you pass also the hashing algorithm.
Then, we also, again, that's not important,
but I just wanted to show you there are bunch of functions you can actually call,
on a Merkle tree, there's a function called getLeaves,
it just outputs all the leaves that you just created using the hash,
and then it can also get layers,
and it just returns all the layers of the Merkle tree including leaves and roots.
But this is an important one that I want you to look at.
So, I have a function that I'm calling getRoot.
In this, I'm calling tree.getRoot.
This is what actually creates the real Merkle root hash.
So, it just hashes all the pairs to individually down to just one Merkle root hash.
So, that's the function. Now, and I'm going to show you that you can always trace back.
So, once you create a Merkle tree,
you can always trace back to an individual node and compare values.
So, the function is called getProof.
Okay. So, I'm going to call three.getProof and I'm passing leaves
the second or the second element from the array,
leaves two, and I'm getting the proof out.
What I'm doing in this function,
I'm actually verifying if the proof matches my initial value that was stored in my array.
This is the format or the syntax of the function.
So, again, this is going to return true if the proof matches the target node.
So, just tree.verify, and then you pass in the proof and to what you were comparing to,
and then your Merkle root. So, let's go try it.
I'm just calling all these function in this order here.
Again, some of the bottom function are just for demonstration purposes,
but the real one is createLeaves,
getRoot, getProof, and VerifyNode.
So, we're just doing that, but I just also wanted to show you they can
always get your trees and layers,
and all that stuff too.
So, let's go and run this function now.
So, again lot of information, you can always scroll up so to look at it.
So, the first one that we're having,
we're just outputting the leaves,
and this is the tree that was created, Merkle tree,
and then those are the layers of the tree,
and then we're also putting out the leaves,
and then the next thing that we're also doing is this is the root.
This is the root. Remember, we're doing a console.log on the root.
So, this is a mean Merkle root that's created,
a hash of the Merkle root.
So, if you see, the answer comes to be true.
That means it is verified to be true,
and what we did is that we just compared our hash.
So, we're just getting it down.
So, from the Merkle root,
we're actually comparing if the proof of this matches initial value which it does.
So, I'm actually now going to show you to change this and see if we get false.
Remember, so this proof is getting from leaves two.
Let's actually go compare it to leaves one and see what happens.
Of course, it's going to fill in that case.
Let's go save our file and run our file again.
Let me just go on the top of the screen so you can see me better.
So, if you see it,
it is false now. So, it fills.
So, again that is exactly the way that you can actually trace back
and make sure that all the roots in the nodes are traced back from the Merkle root.